IP-SAKTI SAHAYAK
PROJECT ARCHITECTURE, RAG EXPLANATION, CODE WALKTHROUGH, AND DESIGN TRADE-OFFS
==========================================================================

Purpose
-------
This document explains the project from startup to answer generation. It is
written for a developer or evaluator who wants to understand what is actually
running, why each major part exists, which libraries are used, which parts are
custom, and what alternatives could replace them.

The most important distinction is this:

  The repository contains a broad, modular architecture with interfaces and
  future extension points. The canonical local runtime is narrower and is the
  path used by the web application and the evaluation scripts.

The canonical runtime is:

  Browser HTML/CSS/JavaScript
      -> FastAPI REST API
      -> authenticated query/upload handling
      -> RAGPipeline
      -> query analysis and semantic probe generation
      -> hybrid lexical + dense retrieval plus graph evidence
      -> authority-weighted reranking
      -> context and citation construction
      -> NVIDIA NIM generation in production mode
      -> citation validation and JSON response

The relevant implementation is concentrated in:

  ip_sakti/web/index.html
  ip_sakti/web/static/css/main.css
  ip_sakti/web/static/js/app.js
  ip_sakti/api/app.py
  ip_sakti/api/auth.py
  ip_sakti/rag/pipeline.py
  ip_sakti/ingestion/pipeline.py
  ip_sakti/ingestion/chunking.py
  ip_sakti/ingestion/loaders.py
  ip_sakti/retrieval/retrieval_engine.py
  ip_sakti/authority/authority_system.py
  ip_sakti/config/settings.yaml


1. What problem the project solves
-----------------------------------
IP-SAKTI Sahayak is a legal-research assistant for Indian intellectual
property, Ayurveda, traditional knowledge, biodiversity, Access and Benefit
Sharing, and related international regimes.

The user is not expected to ask only a narrow question such as "What is Act
No. X?" A realistic question may describe a product, its plants or chemicals,
its manufacturing method, its proposed claims, and a planned market. The
system therefore tries to do four things together:

  1. Understand the user's practical goal.
  2. Retrieve authoritative passages from multiple legal regimes.
  3. Produce an answer tied to those passages with numbered citations.
  4. Abstain or state uncertainty when the corpus does not support a claim.

This is information retrieval and research assistance, not a substitute for a
qualified lawyer, regulatory consultant, patent agent, or medical professional.
The generation prompt and UI carry that limitation explicitly.


2. What RAG means
-----------------
RAG means Retrieval-Augmented Generation.

An ordinary language model answers from patterns learned during training. That
can be useful for general language, but it is risky for legal work because:

  - laws change;
  - legal wording is precise;
  - a model can invent a section, form, deadline, or authority;
  - jurisdiction matters;
  - a confident answer can be wrong even when it sounds plausible.

RAG adds a retrieval step before generation:

  user question
      -> search indexed source passages
      -> select and rank evidence
      -> place evidence in a prompt
      -> ask the model to answer only from that evidence
      -> validate citations and output

The model is still generating prose, but the factual/legal material is
intended to come from the retrieved corpus. This makes the answer more
traceable and gives the application a place to update law: re-ingest a new
version of a source instead of retraining the language model.

RAG is not automatically factual. It can fail when the corpus is incomplete,
the query retrieves the wrong passage, the source metadata is wrong, or the
generator overstates the evidence. That is why this project includes hybrid
retrieval, authority weighting, negative probes, citation validation,
jurisdiction handling, audit events, and an abstention-oriented prompt.


3. How to run the two local modes
----------------------------------
Production-like mode, port 8000:

  IP_SAKTI_TEST_MODE=false
  python -m uvicorn ip_sakti.api.app:app --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000

This mode uses the configured persistent SQLite vector store, local
Sentence-Transformers embeddings, and NVIDIA NIM generation. The NVIDIA key
is read from the ignored .env through the environment; it must never be
committed to Git or written into source code.

Test mode, port 8001:

  IP_SAKTI_TEST_MODE=true
  python -m uvicorn ip_sakti.api.app:app --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8001

This mode uses an in-memory vector store, deterministic mock embeddings, and a
deterministic extractive answer. It is fast, repeatable, and safe for tests,
but it is not the same as measuring production model quality. The full corpus
must be re-ingested after an 8001 restart because its vectors live in memory.

The current 8001 test corpus was loaded through the normal /ingest/batch
endpoint and contains 23 corpus inputs and 2,299 chunks. That is a runtime
state, not a committed database snapshot.


4. Frontend: language, framework, and behavior
-----------------------------------------------
The frontend is written in:

  - HTML for structure;
  - CSS for layout, palette, graph styling, and responsive surfaces;
  - vanilla JavaScript for state, API calls, rendering, and interaction.

There is no React, Vue, Angular, Next.js, or other frontend framework. The
backend serves the web app from /web. The main files are:

  ip_sakti/web/index.html
  ip_sakti/web/static/css/main.css
  ip_sakti/web/static/js/app.js

This was chosen because the interface is a single dashboard-style application
with limited build tooling. Vanilla JavaScript keeps deployment simple: the
same FastAPI process serves the API and the static UI, with no Node build step.

The frontend obtains a local JWT using /auth/token, stores it in
localStorage, and uses the token for protected calls. It calls:

  /query                 chat questions
  /query/upload          temporary PDF prompt context
  /ingest/upload         PDF/document indexing
  /documents             files page
  /dashboard/metrics     dashboard counters and charts
  /health                pipeline health and node status
  /escalations           local human-review queue

The pipeline graph is a real HTML/SVG visualization, not a screenshot. It has
explicit source-to-ingest-to-index-to-reason-to-serve edges, zoom controls,
wheel zoom, pointer panning, node selection, and health data from /health.
The graph is a view of the canonical application stages, not a distributed
tracing topology.


5. Startup and dependency wiring
--------------------------------
The FastAPI application is in ip_sakti/api/app.py.

At startup it initializes shared components including:

  - Settings from YAML and environment variables;
  - RetrievalEngine;
  - RAGPipeline;
  - ingestion pipeline;
  - authority system;
  - JWT/API-key managers;
  - generation readiness metadata.

The dependency functions in app.py return those shared components to request
handlers. This avoids constructing a new model/index for every request.

Settings are loaded by ip_sakti/config/loader.py. Environment variables can
override important values such as:

  IP_SAKTI_TEST_MODE
  IP_SAKTI_CORPUS_ROOT
  IP_SAKTI_INDEX_PATH
  NVIDIA_API_KEY

The YAML file describes a wider selection of technologies, but the loader and
the concrete classes determine what the local runtime actually instantiates.
Always verify both settings.yaml and the implementation before assuming that a
listed external service is connected.


6. Ingestion: how a source becomes searchable
----------------------------------------------
The ingestion entry point is IngestionPipeline in
ip_sakti/ingestion/pipeline.py. The high-level stages are:

  FETCH -> VALIDATE -> EXTRACT -> CHUNK -> ENRICH -> INDEX -> COMPLETE

6.1 Fetch
----------
The source can be a local path, a URL, or raw content. Local files are checked
against allowed ingestion paths. URL fetching checks allowed domains and size
limits. This prevents the API from becoming an unrestricted file reader or
server-side fetch proxy.

6.2 Validate
------------
The pipeline checks that content exists, detects MIME type, applies document
validators, checks suspicious/malicious content, and verifies source metadata.
PDF signature checks are deliberately important because a file named .pdf is
not necessarily a valid PDF.

6.3 Extract
-----------
ip_sakti/ingestion/loaders.py selects a loader by extension. The project can
use text, PDF, HTML, Markdown, XML, DOCX, and fallback loaders. PDF extraction
uses the installed PDF tooling where available and has fallback behavior.

6.4 Chunk
---------
Long documents are split into DocumentChunk objects. The active default path
uses a recursive character splitter in ip_sakti/ingestion/chunking.py:

  - try paragraph boundaries;
  - then line boundaries;
  - then sentence/word boundaries;
  - finally split at character level if necessary;
  - merge pieces up to chunk_size;
  - preserve chunk_overlap from the previous chunk;
  - discard chunks below min_chunk_size.

The default loader properties currently fall back to a chunk size of 512
characters and 50 characters of overlap unless the ingestion.chunking settings
override them. The larger module-selection values in YAML are not automatically
the effective values; the Settings property is the source of truth.

Why overlap exists: legal provisions can start at the end of one chunk and
continue into the next. Overlap reduces boundary loss. Too much overlap raises
index size and duplicate evidence, so it is a recall/latency/storage trade-off.

The semantic chunker class currently falls back to recursive chunking. It is a
valid extension point, not a fully independent embedding-based chunker yet.

6.5 Enrich
----------
Metadata is attached to each chunk: document ID, source path/name, document
type, jurisdiction, authority tier, section information when available,
content hash, and provenance fields. Authority scores are propagated from the
source to the chunk.

6.6 Index
---------
Each chunk is inserted into:

  1. vector store, for dense semantic search;
  2. keyword index, for BM25-like lexical search;
  3. local NetworkX graph, where graph ingestion is enabled.

Production-like local mode persists chunks and vectors in
data/runtime/ip_sakti_index.sqlite3. Test mode stores them in dictionaries in
memory.


7. Embeddings: what they are and why they are used
--------------------------------------------------
An embedding is a numeric vector representing the meaning of text. Similar
texts should be near each other under cosine similarity even when they do not
share exact words.

The configured local embedding model is:

  sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2
  384 dimensions

The embedding abstraction lives in ip_sakti/embedding/embedder.py. It supports
Sentence Transformers and extension points for other providers. The provider
normalizes embeddings, batches document encoding, counts tokens, and executes
model work off the async event loop.

Why embeddings help this project:

  A user may say "I made a plant-based medicine and want approval" while the
  statute says "Ayurvedic proprietary medicine". Keyword search alone may miss
  that relationship. Dense retrieval can match paraphrases and related legal
  concepts.

Why embeddings are not enough:

  Exact legal terms, section numbers, act names, and negations are often best
  handled lexically. Dense similarity can retrieve something conceptually
  close but legally inapplicable. The project therefore combines dense and
  BM25-style retrieval.

Test-mode warning: when IP_SAKTI_TEST_MODE=true, the engine intentionally uses
deterministic mock vectors based on text hashes. That makes tests repeatable,
but it is not semantic embedding quality and should not be used to claim model
accuracy.


8. Retrieval: dense, lexical, hybrid, graph, and authority
-----------------------------------------------------------
RetrievalEngine is in ip_sakti/retrieval/retrieval_engine.py.

8.1 Dense retrieval
-------------------
The query is embedded using the same embedding space as document chunks. The
vector store computes cosine similarity and returns top-k chunks after metadata
filters such as jurisdiction or document type.

8.2 Lexical retrieval
---------------------
InMemoryKeywordIndex tokenizes text and computes a BM25-style score. The key
BM25 parameters are k1=1.5 and b=0.75. BM25 rewards term frequency but
normalizes for document length and inverse document frequency. It is especially
useful for:

  - exact Act names;
  - sections and clause numbers;
  - named treaties;
  - patent/trademark identifiers;
  - statutory phrases.

8.3 Hybrid retrieval
--------------------
For a hybrid request, semantic and keyword searches run in parallel. Scores
are normalized and combined:

  fused_score = alpha * normalized_dense
              + (1 - alpha) * normalized_keyword

The configured vector weight is commonly 0.6, so dense meaning gets slightly
more influence while exact terms remain significant. The code comment mentions
RRF, but the current concrete implementation in _fuse_results is a normalized
weighted score, not a pure reciprocal-rank formula. This distinction matters
when explaining or benchmarking the system.

8.4 Graph retrieval
-------------------
The local NetworkX graph can associate entities with source chunks. Graph search
matches query terms against graph entity names and returns linked chunks. It is
an additional evidence path for entity relationships; it is not currently a
full legal knowledge graph with complete rules, dates, and formal ontologies.

8.5 Authority weighting
-----------------------
Legal evidence is not equally trustworthy. A primary statute or treaty should
normally outrank commentary. SourceAuthoritySystem assigns tiers and weights:

  TIER_1  primary legislation/treaties       1.0
  TIER_2  subordinate rules/regulations      0.9
  TIER_3  binding judicial material          0.95
  TIER_4  regulatory/quasi-judicial          0.7
  TIER_5  official guidance                   0.5
  TIER_6  secondary material                  0.2

The authority-aware reranker blends retrieval relevance with source authority.
The intended effect is to avoid answering from an easy-to-match but weak source
when a stronger source is available.


9. Query processing and multi-angle retrieval
----------------------------------------------
RAGPipeline is in ip_sakti/rag/pipeline.py. The pipeline creates a RAGContext
and executes stage handlers in order.

9.1 Query analysis
------------------
IntentClassifier uses explicit regex/pattern rules, not an LLM classifier. It
recognizes intents such as:

  formulation classification
  procedure query
  compliance check
  patent search
  trademark/copyright/design search
  legal research
  freedom to operate
  validity challenge
  licensing

It extracts simple entities such as patent numbers, case citation patterns, and
years. It detects jurisdiction keywords such as India, USPTO, EPO, WIPO, UKIPO,
CNIPA, and JPO. It also estimates complexity using word count, boolean terms,
quotes, and recognized entities.

This rule-based classifier is fast, transparent, and easy to audit. It is not a
general NER model and it cannot understand every phrasing. The priority logic
prevents broad words such as "plant" or "drug" from overriding explicit legal
actions such as "patent" or "register".

9.2 Query rewriting
--------------------
MultiQueryRewriter expands the question with jurisdiction, intent-specific
synonyms, and legal angles. The point is recall: one wording rarely covers all
the terminology in statutes, regulations, and guidance.

9.3 Positive semantic probes
----------------------------
The current production configuration requests 24 positive semantic probes.
The probes cover formulation category, registration procedure, safety,
patentability, TKDL/prior art, ABS, Ayurveda categories, labelling,
trademarks/GI, international export, forms/timelines, clinical evidence,
enforcement, and cross-regime interactions.

For each probe, the engine asks for the configured positive top-k results. In
test mode the number of probes is capped at 4 to keep the 8001 test suite fast;
production mode uses the configured 24.

9.4 Negative semantic probes
-----------------------------
The system also creates three contrastive probes, for example:

  - identify unrelated or non-applicable regimes;
  - find exclusions and counterexamples;
  - find foreign or purely commercial material that should not be treated as
    Indian regulatory authority.

Negative results are not shown as answer facts. They create a penalty signal.
For a candidate chunk c:

  adjusted_score(c) = positive_score(c)
                     - negative_penalty * negative_score(c)

The configured negative penalty is 0.20. This is a practical contrastive
retrieval heuristic: evidence that repeatedly resembles an exclusion or wrong
jurisdiction should be less likely to survive reranking.

Important limitation: these are negative retrieval probes, not a second LLM
"negative prompt" in the image-generation sense. They do not guarantee that
all irrelevant law is removed. They provide a measurable down-weighting signal.

9.5 Retrieval fusion and deduplication
---------------------------------------
Positive results, graph results, and negative-adjusted results are combined by
chunk ID. A candidate is retained once, then sorted by score and clipped to the
configured final retrieval count, normally 10.


10. Reranking and evidence selection
------------------------------------
Two rerankers are configured:

  1. AuthorityWeightedReranker
  2. CrossEncoderReranker

The authority reranker computes a blend of the retrieval score and the chunk's
authority information. The cross-encoder is an optional second-stage model
that scores query/passage pairs jointly, which is usually more precise than
embedding similarity but slower.

For test mode, cross-encoder scores are deterministic score decay by rank.
For production, the cross-encoder is disabled unless:

  IP_SAKTI_ENABLE_CROSS_ENCODER=true

This is deliberate. Loading a multilingual cross-encoder can consume multiple
gigabytes and make a local legal demo slow. The default production path uses
authority-weighted retrieval scores instead of silently paying that latency.

ContextBuilder then takes reranked chunks until the configured context budget
is reached. The default legal context budget is 8,000 tokens. Each selected
chunk becomes both prompt context and a citation record containing source name,
jurisdiction, tier, section/provenance, score, and content preview.


11. Generation and citation safety
----------------------------------
LLMGenerator in ip_sakti/rag/pipeline.py is the generation boundary.

Production mode:

  - reads NVIDIA_API_KEY from the environment;
  - calls the OpenAI-compatible NVIDIA NIM endpoint;
  - uses the configured model openai/gpt-oss-20b;
  - uses low temperature 0.1 for more stable legal output;
  - requests up to 4096 output tokens;
  - sends a system instruction and a constructed evidence prompt.

The system instruction tells the model to:

  - answer only from supplied evidence;
  - classify the formulation before recommending a pathway;
  - distinguish India and international regimes;
  - cite material claims with [n];
  - give proportionate length instead of always being extremely brief;
  - state information-not-legal-advice limits;
  - never invent an authority, section, form, fee, deadline, or approval.

The user prompt includes:

  - the user query;
  - structured requirements for classification and next steps;
  - the retrieved context;
  - a numbered source list;
  - requested language.

After generation, the code normalizes alternative full-width citation brackets.
CitationValidator checks that every [n] in the answer refers to a supplied
source. It does not prove that the language model's proposition is legally
correct; it proves only that the citation ID exists. Source quality and claim
support still require evaluation.

Test mode does not call NVIDIA. It returns an extractive answer made from up
to three citation previews. This makes tests deterministic and avoids API
costs, but it is intentionally not a quality comparison with the production
LLM.


12. PDF upload has two meanings
-------------------------------
The chat UI offers two document modes.

12.1 Add to corpus
------------------
The ingest mode calls /ingest/upload. The file is saved under the runtime
uploads area and passes through fetch, validate, extract, chunk, enrich, and
index. It becomes part of the persistent corpus in production mode.

12.2 Use as prompt context
--------------------------
The prompt mode calls /query/upload. The server extracts readable text, limits
the attachment text, and passes it as temporary attachment context to the same
RAGPipeline. It does not add the document to the persistent index.

This separation prevents a private one-off PDF from silently becoming shared
knowledge while still allowing a user to ask questions about it.


13. Jurisdiction and legal-domain behavior
------------------------------------------
The Query model carries jurisdiction and language. The UI exposes an India vs
international switch. Retrieval applies jurisdiction metadata filters, and the
generation prompt tells the model to keep national and international answers
separate.

This matters because the same plant/product question can involve:

  - Indian Drugs and Cosmetics law;
  - Indian biodiversity and ABS law;
  - Indian patents, trademarks, GI, copyright, designs, and plant-variety law;
  - CBD/Nagoya obligations;
  - TRIPS/WIPO/PCT/Madrid/Hague/Budapest systems;
  - destination-market food, cosmetic, supplement, or drug rules.

The formulation classification flow is not a single legal conclusion. It is a
triage step that identifies possible categories such as classical medicine,
proprietary medicine, new/non-classical drug, phytopharmaceutical,
Ayurveda-Aahar/nutraceutical, or cosmetic. Actual classification depends on
facts, claims, ingredients, dosage, evidence, and the competent authority.


14. Authority, provenance, and audit records
---------------------------------------------
SourceAuthoritySystem assigns source tiers and propagates authority metadata
to chunks. The citation record also preserves content hash/source path fields
where available.

The API writes privacy-conscious audit events to:

  data/runtime/audit/events.jsonl

The audit helper intentionally records event type, user ID, query ID,
jurisdiction, intent, citation count, confidence, and processing time rather
than raw prompt text. This reduces unnecessary storage of sensitive user
questions.

Dashboard query telemetry is also aggregate-only. The production runtime stores
counts and latency/category/jurisdiction aggregates in:

  data/runtime/query_telemetry.json

This file is not a replacement for a full analytics database. It exists so
dashboard counters survive a process restart without saving raw queries.


15. Dashboard metrics and why zeros appeared
---------------------------------------------
The dashboard reads /dashboard/metrics. That endpoint reports:

  - distinct indexed source documents;
  - indexed chunk count;
  - authority-tier distribution;
  - retrieval stats;
  - completed/cited/abstained query telemetry;
  - category and jurisdiction counts;
  - test/live mode.

The previous zero-prompts display had two causes:

  1. The 30-prompt test suite ran against port 8001 while the browser dashboard
     was sometimes connected to port 8000. Those are separate processes and
     separate in-memory counters.
  2. Telemetry was initially process-local and reset on restart.

The production persistence fix loads and atomically saves aggregate telemetry.
Test mode deliberately does not persist telemetry, so an 8001 evaluation run
does not contaminate production dashboard statistics.


16. Why these libraries are used
---------------------------------
FastAPI and Uvicorn
  FastAPI provides typed asynchronous HTTP routes and automatic request
  validation through Pydantic. Uvicorn is the ASGI server. Alternatives are
  Flask/Gunicorn or Django/ASGI. FastAPI was selected for compact typed API
  development and async file/model operations.

Pydantic
  Defines request/response contracts and prevents malformed data from flowing
  deep into the pipeline. Alternatives are dataclasses plus manual validation
  or Marshmallow. Pydantic gives stronger API boundary behavior.

NumPy and PyTorch
  Store and calculate vectors and support Sentence Transformers. Alternatives
  include ONNX Runtime, TensorFlow, or pure Python, but pure Python is too
  slow and less capable for model inference.

Sentence Transformers
  Supplies local semantic embeddings and optional cross-encoders. Alternatives
  are an embedding API, Cohere/Voyage embeddings, or NVIDIA-hosted embeddings.
  Local embeddings reduce per-query cost and keep document indexing private;
  API embeddings can be stronger or easier to scale but require network,
  credentials, and recurring cost.

FAISS support
  The repository includes a FAISS vector-store implementation for high-speed
  in-memory search. The current canonical local deployment uses SQLiteVectorStore
  or InMemoryVectorStore, not necessarily FAISS. FAISS is a future/performance
  option rather than proof that the active store is FAISS.

rank-bm25 concept / custom BM25-style index
  Exact lexical matching is valuable for legal identifiers. The active
  InMemoryKeywordIndex implements a small BM25-style index directly. An
  Elasticsearch/OpenSearch deployment would be better for large distributed
  corpora, but would add a service, operational cost, analyzers, and deployment
  complexity.

NetworkX
  Provides a local graph representation for entity-to-chunk relationships.
  Alternatives are Neo4j, Amazon Neptune, or a relational graph schema.
  NetworkX is simple for a prototype and single-node deployment; it is not the
  correct scale-out choice for a very large multi-user graph.

PDF and document loaders
  pypdf/pdfplumber/pdfminer/pypdfium2/unstructured/BeautifulSoup support common
  legal document formats. These are used because Python's standard library
  does not parse PDF layout, fonts, pages, and encoded text reliably.

python-jose/PyJWT and cryptography
  Provide JWT/API-key security primitives. Alternatives are an external
  identity provider such as Auth0, Keycloak, Microsoft Entra, or a managed
  gateway. Local JWT is adequate for the current demo but external identity is
  preferable for enterprise identity, rotation, SSO, and revocation.

Chart.js
  Provides dashboard charts in the existing static frontend. An alternative is
  D3 or a React chart library. Chart.js is smaller and integrates directly with
  the vanilla JavaScript UI.


17. Two or more viable alternatives and why we did not use them
---------------------------------------------------------------
Alternative A: hosted vector database such as Qdrant, Weaviate, Pinecone
  Advantages: indexing, filtering, HNSW, persistence, scaling, and operational
  tooling are already provided.
  Why not current default: the project needs a local reproducible runtime with
  no mandatory external service. SQLite plus local vectors makes the demo easy
  to run and audit. A hosted vector DB should be considered when concurrency,
  corpus size, replication, and multi-tenant isolation become requirements.

Alternative B: Elasticsearch/OpenSearch for lexical and hybrid search
  Advantages: mature BM25, legal analyzers, distributed indexing, filters,
  highlighting, and operational dashboards.
  Why not current default: it requires another service and schema lifecycle.
  The local custom BM25 index demonstrates the behavior without making a
  reviewer install Elasticsearch.

Alternative C: LangChain/LlamaIndex as the primary orchestration framework
  Advantages: fast connectors, retriever abstractions, prompt chains, agents,
  and integrations.
  Why not current default: the project needs explicit legal stages, authority
  weighting, privacy rules, negative-probe scoring, and auditable control over
  every step. Frameworks can still be used inside a stage, and loaders are
  already wrapped, but the main pipeline remains custom so the behavior is
  visible.

Alternative D: a fully hosted model and embedding stack
  Advantages: no local model download, potentially stronger models, easy
  scaling, and managed availability.
  Why not current default: legal documents and user questions may be sensitive;
  local embeddings reduce data exposure and cost. NVIDIA NIM is used for the
  generation boundary because the available NVIDIA credential supports the
  user's preferred provider, while embedding remains local.

Alternative E: React/Next.js frontend
  Advantages: component reuse, routing, state libraries, and ecosystem.
  Why not current default: the current application is a single static dashboard
  and chat surface. Vanilla JS removes the build pipeline and keeps the same
  FastAPI deployment self-contained. React becomes reasonable when the UI grows
  into many independently owned views.

Alternative F: an LLM-based query classifier
  Advantages: better language coverage and flexible intent reasoning.
  Why not current default: classifier output can vary, adds latency and cost,
  and is harder to audit. The current rule classifier is transparent. A hybrid
  approach could use rules for high-confidence legal signals and an LLM only
  for ambiguous queries.


18. Research and established IR ideas behind the design
--------------------------------------------------------
The implementation uses established ideas, but it should not be described as
a formal reproduction of any paper unless a benchmark and implementation match
are documented.

RAG / Lewis et al.
  Retrieval-Augmented Generation connects non-parametric retrieved memory to a
  parametric generator. This project applies the same broad pattern: retrieve
  legal chunks, place them into context, and generate a cited answer.

BM25 / Robertson and colleagues
  BM25 balances term frequency, inverse document frequency, and document length.
  The custom lexical index follows that general scoring principle.

Dense passage retrieval / Karpukhin et al.
  Dense retrieval represents questions and passages in a vector space and uses
  similarity for semantic matching. The local embedding provider applies this
  general approach.

Cross-encoder reranking / Nogueira and Cho style reranking
  A cross-encoder reads a query and passage together and scores relevance. The
  optional CrossEncoderReranker follows this second-stage retrieval pattern.

Reciprocal Rank Fusion / Cormack, Clarke, and Buettcher
  RRF is a standard way to fuse rankings from different retrieval systems. The
  project conceptually uses the same multi-signal fusion goal, but the active
  _fuse_results implementation uses normalized weighted scores. Do not claim it
  is pure RRF without changing or documenting the formula.

Contrastive/negative retrieval
  The positive-minus-negative penalty is inspired by contrastive retrieval and
  hard-negative reasoning: relevant candidates should be separated from
  semantically adjacent but inapplicable candidates. The current penalty is a
  pragmatic heuristic and needs an ablation study to prove improvement.

Authority-aware legal retrieval
  The authority tiers are domain logic rather than a standard library feature.
  They encode a legal principle: primary binding material should influence
  ranking more than weak secondary material, subject to jurisdiction and date.


19. Why numerical settings can improve the system
-------------------------------------------------
Numerical settings are not magic quality guarantees. They control recall,
precision, latency, memory, and answer context.

24 positive probes
  More angles increase recall for multi-regime questions. A product question
  can require drug classification, patents, ABS, labelling, and export law.
  The cost is up to 24 semantic searches per query, so latency and compute rise.

3 negative probes
  A small negative set provides contrast without multiplying cost as much as a
  full negative corpus search. The 3 probes represent exclusions, wrong
  jurisdiction, and unrelated regimes.

positive_top_k=4 and negative_top_k=3
  Each probe returns a small candidate list, keeping the union manageable. If
  these values are too low, recall suffers; if too high, reranking and context
  construction become slower and duplicates grow.

top_k_final=10
  Ten final candidates offer multi-source coverage while keeping the LLM
  context readable. The context builder may select fewer if the token budget is
  reached.

negative_penalty=0.20
  A penalty of 0.20 is strong enough to change ranking but not so strong that a
  useful passage is automatically discarded because it appeared in a noisy
  negative probe. This is a starting point, not a scientifically validated
  optimum.

chunk_size and overlap
  Smaller chunks improve citation precision and reduce irrelevant text. Larger
  chunks preserve context and reduce index count. Overlap protects legal
  continuity but duplicates storage and evidence.

temperature=0.1
  Low temperature reduces variation in legal answers. It does not make an LLM
  truthful; evidence grounding and validation remain necessary.

max_context_tokens=8000 and max_tokens=4096
  The context budget gives the generator enough multi-factor evidence. The
  answer budget permits structured explanations but does not force a long answer.

authority_weight=0.3
  Relevance remains the majority signal, while authority has enough influence
  to prefer stronger sources. Too much authority weight could hide a highly
  relevant lower-tier guidance document; too little could overvalue commentary.

How to prove a numerical improvement
  Run an evaluation set with fixed prompts and compare ablations:

    baseline: one query, dense only, no negative probes, no authority weight
    hybrid: dense + BM25
    hybrid-authority: add authority reranking
    contrastive: add negative probes
    full: add all stages

  Measure citation precision, citation recall, answer faithfulness, answer
  relevancy, abstention correctness, jurisdiction accuracy, latency, and cost.
  The 30-case suite is a workflow smoke/evaluation corpus; it is not by itself
  a statistically sufficient legal accuracy benchmark.


20. What is custom and not part of a standard library
-------------------------------------------------------
The project-specific intellectual work is mainly in:

  - legal intent patterns and formulation triage;
  - multi-angle legal query probes;
  - negative/exclusion probes and penalty scoring;
  - source authority tiers and legal weighting;
  - jurisdiction filters and India/international separation;
  - legal citation record construction;
  - citation marker validation;
  - privacy-conscious audit event schema;
  - PDF choice between persistent ingestion and ephemeral prompt context;
  - dashboard pipeline graph and live API telemetry;
  - formulation-oriented generation instructions;
  - local test-mode deterministic behavior;
  - test suite and 30-prompt workflow runner.

These are not provided by FastAPI, NumPy, or Sentence Transformers as a single
feature. They are application logic assembled around those libraries.


21. Code walkthrough of one complete question
----------------------------------------------
Suppose the user asks:

  "I made an Ayurvedic product with neem and turmeric using a new extraction
   process. Which category applies, where do I register it, and can I patent
   the process?"

Step 1: Browser request
  app.js runQuery() posts JSON to /query with query, user_id, language,
  jurisdiction, and require_citations.

Step 2: API conversion
  app.py converts QueryRequest into the internal Query model and calls
  rag_pipeline.run(query).

Step 3: Classifier
  IntentClassifier sees product/formulation/plant terms, registration/procedure
  terms, and patent terms. Explicit legal intent is prioritized so patent or
  procedure signals are not lost behind broad formulation vocabulary.

Step 4: Probe creation
  MultiQueryRewriter creates multiple positive angles such as classification,
  registration authority, safety, patentability, and traditional knowledge.
  It also creates three exclusion probes.

Step 5: Search
  Each probe is sent through RetrievalEngine. Dense similarity catches related
  concepts; BM25 catches exact terms such as patent, registration, or Act names;
  metadata filters keep the requested jurisdiction in scope.

Step 6: Fusion and negative adjustment
  Results are normalized and fused. Chunks that score on negative probes receive
  a penalty. Duplicates are removed and the final candidate list is clipped.

Step 7: Reranking
  Authority weighting favors primary law and relevant official material. The
  optional cross-encoder can improve pairwise relevance when explicitly enabled.

Step 8: Context/citations
  ContextBuilder formats selected passages and creates citation metadata. The
  model sees the source list and the evidence text.

Step 9: Generation
  NVIDIA receives the guarded system prompt plus evidence and produces a
  proportionate answer: classification, Indian pathway, patent implications,
  ABS/TK concerns if supported, practical next steps, uncertainty, and a
  disclaimer.

Step 10: Citation validation
  CitationValidator checks that every [n] marker points to an available source.
  It cannot independently certify the law, so the answer still needs expert
  review for high-stakes use.

Step 11: API response and telemetry
  app.py serializes segments, citations, confidence, retrieved chunks, intent,
  jurisdiction, and warnings. RAGPipeline updates aggregate query telemetry,
  and production mode persists it without raw text.

Step 12: Frontend rendering
  app.js joins answer segments, displays citations and confidence, and shows the
  information-not-legal-advice message. Dashboard/pipeline pages fetch live
  health and metrics rather than using simulated query values.


22. Security and privacy behavior
----------------------------------
The API supports JWT and API-key authentication. Production endpoints require
scopes for sensitive operations such as ingestion and admin metrics. Test mode
has a deliberate local bypass for repeatable smoke tests; it must not be used
as a production security configuration.

Important controls include:

  - environment-only credentials;
  - allowed ingestion paths and domains;
  - maximum document size;
  - document validation;
  - prompt/query input limits from Pydantic models;
  - no raw query text in aggregate dashboard telemetry;
  - local audit records for important events;
  - explicit disclaimer and escalation path.

The current demo authentication accepts any non-empty local demo credentials at
the token endpoint. That is suitable for a local prototype only. A production
deployment needs a real user store, password verification, key rotation,
revocation, rate limiting backed by shared storage, and preferably SSO.


23. Evaluation and testing
--------------------------
Focused tests are in tests/test_local_runtime.py and tests/test_prompt_suite.py.
The 30 prompt file is:

  docs/prompt_suite_30.txt

The Bash runner is:

  scripts/run_prompt_suite.sh

It records one JSONL row per prompt and a summary under:

  artifacts/prompt-runs/

The suite covers different personas, languages, jurisdictions, product facts,
IP questions, ABS/TK, international systems, clarification, and abstention.
It checks workflow behavior such as HTTP success, answer presence, citations,
retrieval counts, negative searches, and elapsed time. It does not establish
that every legal proposition is correct. A gold-answer dataset reviewed by
legal experts is required for that.

Useful checks:

  IP_SAKTI_TEST_MODE=true python -m pytest -q
  bash -n scripts/run_prompt_suite.sh
  node --check ip_sakti/web/static/js/app.js
  Invoke-RestMethod http://127.0.0.1:8000/health
  Invoke-RestMethod http://127.0.0.1:8000/dashboard/metrics


24. Current limitations and honest status
------------------------------------------
The following are implemented or wired, but should not be overstated:

  - The graph is a local NetworkX evidence graph, not a complete legal
    ontology or Neo4j production cluster.
  - The active hybrid fusion is normalized weighted fusion, not pure RRF.
  - Semantic chunking currently falls back to recursive chunking.
  - Test mode uses deterministic mock embeddings and extractive generation.
  - Cross-encoder reranking is optional and disabled by default for responsiveness.
  - Rule-based intent classification is transparent but not full language
    understanding.
  - Citation validation checks citation references, not legal truth.
  - The 30 prompts are an evaluation harness, not proof of 100 percent accuracy.
  - 8001 in-memory corpus state is lost on restart; 8000 production-like mode
    uses SQLite persistence.
  - The current local corpus is a curated demonstration corpus and must be
    versioned, reviewed, and refreshed for real legal deployment.
  - The assistant must not be used as final legal, regulatory, medical, or
    filing advice without qualified human review.


25. Recommended next improvements
----------------------------------
If this moves beyond a demo, the highest-value improvements are:

  1. Create a legally reviewed golden set with expected authorities and claim
     support, then run retrieval and citation ablations.
  2. Replace test-mode mock vectors with a pinned, measured production embedding
     model and record embedding model/version in index metadata.
  3. Implement genuine structure-aware legal chunking that preserves Act,
     section, subsection, schedule, and amendment boundaries.
  4. Add document versioning and supersession logic so repealed or amended text
     cannot silently outrank current law.
  5. Use a real vector/lexical service when corpus size and concurrency require
     it, while retaining a local fallback.
  6. Add a reviewed jurisdiction classifier and a human confirmation step for
     ambiguous India/international queries.
  7. Make citation claim-support evaluation stricter than marker existence.
  8. Add a real identity provider and shared rate-limit/audit infrastructure.
  9. Add multilingual embeddings and evaluated Hindi/Indic-language answers.
 10. Add source freshness checks and official-source fetch/update jobs.


26. Glossary
------------
API
  Application Programming Interface. The HTTP contract used by the browser and
  other clients.

BM25
  A lexical ranking function based on term frequency, inverse document
  frequency, and document length normalization.

Chunk
  A retrievable passage extracted from a larger document.

Embedding
  A vector representation of text meaning.

Hybrid retrieval
  Retrieval that combines multiple signals, here dense and lexical search.

Reranking
  A second ranking step applied to an initial candidate set.

RAG
  Retrieval-Augmented Generation.

RRF
  Reciprocal Rank Fusion, a ranking-fusion method. This code has a hybrid
  weighted fusion implementation with a similar multi-signal goal.

Authority tier
  Application-specific representation of source legal strength and provenance.

Abstention
  An answer that states the evidence is insufficient instead of inventing a
  conclusion.

NIM
  NVIDIA inference microservice/API style used here through an
  OpenAI-compatible chat-completions endpoint.


Final mental model
------------------
The project is not just a chatbot. It is a source-to-answer system:

  curated legal files
    -> validated extraction
    -> overlapping retrievable chunks
    -> local embeddings + lexical index + graph links
    -> multi-angle positive and negative retrieval
    -> authority-aware reranking
    -> evidence-sized context with provenance
    -> NVIDIA grounded generation
    -> citation validation, audit, telemetry, and UI

The design favors transparency and local reproducibility over maximum
production scale. Its strongest differentiator is not a single model; it is
the combination of legal-domain routing, authority-aware evidence, explicit
India/international separation, contrastive retrieval, citation-first output,
and an inspectable pipeline.
